---
layout: post
title: "My Setup"
date: 2013-03-29 23:31
comments: true
categories: nerdliness
link: false
---
The [Uses This](http://usesthis.com "Uses This") series, and Shawn Blanc's [Sweet Mac Setups](http://shawnblanc.net/sweet-mac-setups/ "Sweet Mac Setups") series have always intrigued me, so I decided to write one of my own.

##Who are you and what do you do?
My name is Mark Nichols. I'm married to [Sibylle Kuder](http://sibyllekuder.com "Sibylle Kuder Piano Studio"), I play [violoncello](http://cello.zanshin.net "Solfège"), I hack around with [various computer technologies](http://github/com/zan5hin "My GitHub"), and I'm an all-around good guy. Professionally I work for Kansas State University as an "Integration Services Coordinator" — dealing with the sometimes messy intersection of differing systems and their needs.

##What hardware do you use?
My personal computer is a [15" 2009 MacBook Pro](http://support.apple.com/kb/SP544?viewlocale=en_US&locale=en_US "15-inch Mid 2009") with a 2.66 GHz Core 2 Duo processor and 8 GB of RAM. Within the next week the original 320 GB hard drive will be replaced with a new 1 TB drive.

I also have a 16GB iPad Mini that is easily one of the nicest computers I have ever owned. My phone is a 16GB iPhone 5 on AT&t.

My employer provides me with wonderful tools, so I have on my desk a 27" iMac with a 256GB SSD and a 1 TB spinning drive. My work laptop is a 13" Retina MacBook Pro, with a 500 GB SSD and 8 GB of RAM. It *is* the sweetest computer I've ever had the pleasure of using. 

Tunes in my car are provided via an iPod Nano. I have an aging (no longer holds a charge but works fine pluged in) 30 GB 5th Generation iPod that holds most of my music and lives in the corner of the house where I practice my cello, so that I can listen to the pieces I am learning.

My cello is a Eastman 100 fitted with Jargar Strings and played with a CodaBow Diamond SX bow. I use Gribaldi rosin. 

For printing we have a newly purchased HP OfficeJet 8600 All-in-One printer/copier/fax/scanner. It's beautiful, it's wireless, and it prints like a dream.

At work I use a pair of Apple EarPods to listen to music or videos. At home I use a variety of earbud style earphones, but only when the cat isn't around. She considers them string with which to be toyed.

##And what software?
Sublime Text 2, Vim, tmux, and iTerm2 for most coding. IntelliJ for Java, and XCode for Cocoa and iOS development.

Safari for 99% of my browsing and Google Chrome on rare occasion. 

Adium for instant message chat and IRC. Twitterrific for Twitter. 

Fetch handles my SFTP needs, although I am making more and more use of sshfs for accessing remote drives.

Growl for notifications and Alfred for Cmd-Space-ing things.

TakeFive helps me to control what's playing, and Cobook gives me access to my contacts. 

F.Lux dims my laptop screen at night, and brightens it during the daylight hours. 

Dropbox for convenient movement of files between computers, and Git for version control of all my coding projects. 

##What would be your dream setup?
After spending a couple weeks with the 13" Retina MacBook Pro I would be hard pressed to consider any other machine. Well, maybe the 15" Retina MacBook Pro. 

I'd like a dead simple storage system that hung off our router that would let Sibylle backup her Windows-based machines and me back up my OS X-based machines seamlessly. And perhaps a Mac Mini tied to a couple large drives to house all our music and DVD movies.

I'm intrigued by the Sonos Speaker systems, but other priorities have kept that on the someday list.
